HOW HUMANITARIAN FUNDS FOR THE SYRIA CRISIS WERE SPENT – 2013 SHARP AND RRP

protective and calm space, and a community mobilization programme in eight Governorates.
Organizations provided psycho-social support for 460,000 children, helping them cope with the
distress and disruption to their lives resulting from violence and displacement. More than 78,655
survivors of gender-based violence were assisted with psycho-social support, psychological first
aid, medical counselling and vocational skills programmes through mobile teams and clinics.


Nutrition sector partners were able to reach more than 500,000 children and more than 300,000
pregnant and lactating women, for screening, prevention or treatment of malnutrition and
counselling and education for caretakers on nutrition. 290,417 children (age 6-59 months) were
screened for malnutrition; more than 500,000 children were provided with multi-micronutrients for
the prevention of malnutrition; over 491,936 children aged 6-59 months received complementary
food including Plumpy’Doz, Plumpy’Sup and high-energy biscuits; 62,682 moderately
malnourished children were provided with Plumpy’Sup treatment for malnutrition; and 13,778
children were treated for severe malnutrition with plumpynuts, F-75 and F-100.



The logistics cluster has transported over 30,000 cubic meters of aid cargo vital to shelter,
nutrition, health, WASH, and agriculture programmes on behalf of 16 humanitarian organizations
in Syria. Over 70,000 cubic meters of humanitarian cargo was stored for 16 organizations at the
cluster’s common storage locations in Syria. The cluster supported over 30 joint humanitarian
convoys, transporting aid cargo to the governorates of Idleb, Aleppo, Homs, Daraa, Hama,
Raqqa, Rural Damascus, and Hassakeh. Two primary storage hubs—Safita (near Tartous) and
Sahnaya (Rural Damascus)—provided a total storage capacity of 8,060 square meters for the
humanitarian community. In spite of the complex security environment and the changes in
logistics needs this entailed, the logistics cluster met 440 out of 467 service requests for storage
and transport in 2013.



The emergency telecommunications cluster installed over 200 VHF/HF radios for six
humanitarian organizations, and activated a satellite receiver in Damascus for data and voice
transmission.



To handle the complexity of the humanitarian crisis in Syria, the coordination sector has
promoted maximum effectiveness of humanitarian response through information management,
analysis and dissemination of information, assessment of needs, coordination of inter-sector
response planning, monitoring of results, communication and advocacy, emergency
preparedness and contingency planning, facilitation of inter-agency convoys and initiatives, and
resource mobilization. The sector coordinated 42 inter-agency convoys to reach people in need
in hard-to-access locations.



The staff safety and security sector conducted regular risk assessments, enhanced the physical
security of UN premises in all locations, established 24/7 radio rooms at both UN hubs (Homs
and Tartus), provided security support for UN convoys and missions to the field including crossline areas, and deployed six fully equipped armour-protected vehicles in Damascus, Homs,
Tartus and Qamishly to support aid delivery.



Overall expenditure of funds received for SHARP programmes in 2013 is estimated at 86%
by 31 December 2013.

In 2013 the number of Syrians fleeing their homeland increased dramatically, making this one of the
largest refugee crises in the world. Applications for asylum have been submitted in 90 countries. By 30
November 2013, nearly 2.2 million refugees from Syria had been registered in the Arab Republic of
Egypt (Egypt), the Republic of Iraq (Iraq), the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (Jordan), the Lebanese
Republic (Lebanon), and the Republic of Turkey (Turkey). During 2013, UNHCR registered some 1.7
million Syrian refugees in the region, with registration serving as the entry point for Syrians to be
documented and their vulnerabilities assessed for protection purposes.
The key assistance delivered to refugees and affected host communities in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey,
Iraq and Egypt included:
4

